The Russians think
they own the world now.
Especially those ones
What, no town car?
In our business,
it's better to be anonymous.
I like town cars.
Excuse me, sir.
All right!
I know, I know, I know. A gun.
It is dangerous for no one except you.
You know what I want, don't you?
Yes, sir.
You're wasting time. Don't fuck with me.
Open it. Open it!
Open it!
Give me what I want.
I don't understand.
I don't have andhing else.
If a man's offering you
all that money, I'd take it.
If I need financial advice,
I'll call my broker.
- I'm just saying is all.
- Whatever.
Take off your coat. Take off your coat!
Now how hard was that?
- Excuse me.
- Mister, I thought I told--
What the--
Don't do it! Move! Everybody down!
Out of the way! Move!
- Move! Get out of the way! Move!
- Get out of the way!
Go, go, go, go.
Desperate white or Hispanic male.
Wearing a reflective vest.
He's on top of the cars.
All units at Vernon Jackson.
NYPD!
Everybody down! Stay down!
Other end!
Move! Move!
Everybody down!
Please get out of the platform now!
Come on! Face down!
Everybody off the train!
Everybody get down. Sir, get down.
Is anything wrong?
- Officer. Officer.
- Move! Move!
Come on, guys, get down!
Down! Get your ass down!
Down! Get down!
Search the track.
He went down the tunnel?
Check the tunnel. Check the roofs!
Come on, people.
Face down on the ground now.
He jumped! He was on top of the roof.
This train is closed! Nobody gets on!
Sir, I need you to calm down.
Get these people moving!
Stop right there.
The punk's got balls.
But no positive identification.
No. There's another camera
pointing at the platform.
Michaels, stop it right there.
You see what I see?
- Maybe.
- That's him, Lieutenant.
That's who?
How long you been a detective, Michaels?
11 months, sir.
I'm 22 years in robbery homicide.
One of your subcategories
of robbery is art theft.
There's a lot of that in the Apple.
Are you aware of that, Michaels?
- I guess so, yeah.
- I wasn't.
When I was your age, I was quite happy
with regular murder and mayhem.
Lieutenant Weber minored
in art history at Fordham.
Oh.
Anyway, the Chief starts
calling me Lieutenant Picasso
and puts me in charge
every time there is the theft
of as much as an Etch-A-Sketch.
2 decades I've been
putting 'em all away.
Everybody but him-- Keith Ripley.
He's the best there is.
Howdy, Keith.
You've been bad boy.
- Perhaps I could give you 50.
- No.
That is not possible.
I wouldn't take less than 100.
Oh, man.
I'm just saying is all.
You.
Mind if I borrow this?
Well, I may have wanted to use it.
- Mm.
- But yours will do.
Will you please put down my gun?
There's one thing
you should be aware of, Gabriel.
Or do you prefer Seá¿†or Martin?
The police cannot arrest you
for armed robbery
if your gun isn't loaded.
Your point?
You think I'd walk around
with a loaded shotgun?
Let's see.
You could have checked.
Why? You have my diamonds,
my score, my money.
Enjoy. Nice meeting you both. Bye.
By the way, I was going to ask for 125.
I'm just saying is all.
Gabriel, stay.
Why? What else do you want?
You gonna shoot me now?
Well, in as much as
you did steal the diamonds,
I figure it's only fair
to share the proceeds with you.
So to what do I owe
this act of generosity?
I have a proposition
I wish to discuss with you.
So, how did you know
I would come here,
as well as my name?
It's part of the proposition--
Ah, shit.
Come on.
All right, take it easy, take it easy.
Nicky would like his money.
- Ask him.
- Thank you.
This is something between you and them.
Got nothing to do with me! Aah!
Everything does now.
Call this interest.
Nicky is tired of waiting for you.
You must have very bad karma.
I actually don't believe in it.
Look, about this propos--
No, no, no, no!
You're totally out of your mind.
Good night.
- Hey.
- What?
Here's your karma.
What was in the other envelope?
Your cut.
Now you've got mine.
Whatever.
Think about it.
Yeah, sure, yeah.
Now what do you want?
A partner.
What did you think
I was doing on that train?
I was watching you work.
I've been your shadow
ever since you got to town.
So why were you in my town
robbing subways?
It's hurricane season in Miami.
I don't like hurricanes.
Or you didn't feel like
going back to Angola.
It's over.
- Lesson learned.
- Look.
Gabriel Martin is a rock star.
So why were you holding
open-mike night on the subway
for a lousy hundred grand?
2 reasons.
Yes, Miami was getting too hot.
And perhaps you can relate to this.
Sometimes--
Sometimes you just need to feel the rush.
The juice. Yeah.
You know what I mean.
Yesterday you took down 2 jewelers
for a few stones from Romanov's.
My idea is Romanov's itself.
Please.
Specifically, 2 Fabergé eggs
worth 20 million dollars...
each.
It's a 2-man job.
Do I have your attention?
Wait here.
I hear they prefer cash.
Or your first-born.
Why don't you try The Standard instead?
Jealous?
Of who?
The mystery bandit.
I'm afraid that type of thing
is not my style.
Well, I think this guy's got panache, guts.
And a passing resemblance,
at least in body type.
Well, you don't have to rob trains
to have panache.
Or guts.
But you've got to admit that kind of thing
immediately brands you.
I'd like to pay for the newspaper  please. Thank you "Spaceba" (means thank you in Russian)
My treat. Too painful watching
you attempt to read Cyrillic.
Oh, no, no, no. I was just, uh,
looking at the picture.
So you are jealous.
Yes. You got me there.
Absolutely.
I've got to get this Chinese food to my boss,
so, um...some other time.
When some other time?
I'll call you.
But you don't have my number
or know my name or anything.
- I guess that could be a problem.
- Gabriel.
- Oh, shit.
- Are you with him?
I don't know. Should I? More or less.
Uh, yes, I am.
What do you want?
Can't I bring my goddaughter
a birthday present?
My birthday was last month.
It was 2 weeks ago,
and I'm sorry it's late.
Alex, it's just a present. No strings.
No, thanks.
Well, it was nice
to have almost met you, Gabriel.
- Gaby.
It's a shame you don't keep
a higher class of company.
Don't even think about it.
Think about what?
Going anywhere near her.
I'll rip your heart out. I mean it.
It looks like it's your heart
she's not so fond of.
You were warned. Let's go.
I thought you said the target
was Romanov's.
This is research.
Research?
Oh, wow.
They're absolutely stunning.
They are.
Between 1885 and 1916,
Fabergé produced 50 of these
Easter eggs for the Empress
and her daughter-in-law,
the Czarina Alexandra.
Should I take notes?
Will there be a quiz?
No quiz, but there will be a test.
Okay.
The Fabergés are all made
of precious metals and fine jewels.
Every one a unique masterpiece.
Indeed.
Most are on display in the Kremlin,
the rest in private collections,
museums, or lost.
In this case, at Romanov's.
Who is your buyer?
You don't want to know.
Oh, I'm stealing 40 million dollars'
worth of eggs, so I want to know.
I also want to know
why these particular eggs
are even worth 40 million dollars.
Because no one knows they exist.
Oh.
The so-called mystery eggs?
Yeah, I've heard rumors,
but I thought it was just a myth.
Last year, they turned up
at Romanov's.
So how do you know this?
I was partners with a man named
Victor Korolenko-- Alex' father.
He was in tight with the Russians.
What they knew, he knew.
So, why aren't you
pulling this job with him?
Let's just say he's no longer around.
Leave it at that.
He's gone.
You're here.
Now we just have to deliver.
Ripley.
Why?
Why risk your freedom at all?
This will not be anything close to easy.
You are not in jail in the present.
Are you not comfortable?
I'm never comfortable.
Some people were born to compose music,
others to split the atom.
I was born to steal shit.
Hold out your hand.
Hand?
That coin was given to me by Victor
when we became partners.
The coin represents a Russian phrase--
Vorovoslky mir.
Loosely translated, thieves' world.
Victor belonged to it.
Now...you belong to it.
Psst. Hey.
You misunderstand.
Ripley's just, uh, business.
This is, uh--
Stalking?
Well, if you had given me your number,
I would have called first.
Those are 2 very flawed assumptions.
Do you have a vase?
I just took these
from a roadside shrine,
and I think they need some, uh, water.
Uh, may I use that, uh, thing over there?
Yeah.
I-- I've noticed this, uh, Russian nightclub
down the block--
uh, Riga Rose or something like that.
Why don't we meet there after work?
I'm busy.
I'll wait.
I won't show.
I'll take my chances.
Do svidanja, Alexandra.
Research. Keith Ripley.
'93-- the Brooklyn Museum,
'94-- the Diamond District Warehouse,
and then in '95--
I'm very familiar
with Ripley's life story, Michaels.
In fact, I busted him twice.
Both times he walked
because of good lawyering.
Exactly, so I thought
why not swing for the fences?
Murder 1, Victor Korolenko.
Thinking of the Brighton Beach Steam Baths?
Forget it. There was no--
No body, I know.
But we got a ton of forensics.
- And no witnesses.
- Uh--
Nobody there admitted to seeing a thing.
I was this close to convincing Korolenko
to take witness protection
in exchange for giving up Ripley.
But Ripley got to him first.
I can't prove it.
Right, okay. I see, I see. Okay.
No. What you don't see, Michaels,
is why Ripley got involved
in a small-time caper
like grabbing a few diamonds
off of some couriers on a subway.
And neither did I
until I read the Dutch guy's statement.
Those diamonds came from Romanov's.
You mean, like, Ripley and his new partner
are planning to take down Romanov's?
Ah, come on.
Like that could ever happen.
Not even Ripley
could take down a place like that.
Want to bet?
- Hi.
You know this place very well.
I never said I didn't.
And let's face it,
you didn't see the nightclub.
You saw the flyer in the fax,
and then you made an assumption.
Yeah. Guilty. So I did.
Never assume andhing,
especially down here.
How mysterious.
What?
- Can I buy you a drink?
- I don't drink.
Another assumption.
You want to dance?
Yeah.
I'm willing to make a fool of myself.
Why not?
Here.
Spasiba.
And for him.
- Thank you.
- Thanks.
I thought all Russians drank.
Translation, we're a race
of suicidal alcoholics.
No. I didn't mean that. No.
Actually, we are.
Cheers.
Nastaravia.
Nostrovia.
Nostrovia?
So, how is it, working for the lawyer?
- I'm a lawyer, too, you know.
- Oh.
Maybe I won't say another word
because everything I assume is wrong.
- Well, you don't know until you try.
- True.
Besides, my father warned me
about being a lawyer.
He told me I should try and do
something honest with my life.
As if he would know.
Your father and Ripley,
they were close, right?
Once upon a time.
I'm sure Ripley told you my father's dead.
Now Ripley likes to try to take care of me,
pay for stuff, that kind of thing.
Of course, it's the least he can do.
Sorry. I don't mean to pry.
Yes, you do.
Now who is making assumptions?
No, Gaby. I'm not assuming a thing.
You want to know about Ripley?
Stay away.
You son of a bitch.
Well, you dropped these,
and I am a gentleman
bringing them back to you.
No, no, no.
No.
Oh! Shit, man! What do you want?
I told you to leave her alone.
I'm not gonna tell you again.
Get dressed. I'll be downstairs.
Son of a bitch.
Fascinating.
You could start a whole new trend
in interior design.
What are these?
What do they look like?
Police lDs?
There's a reception at Romanov's
tonight, honoring the NYPD.
And our invitation's just arrived.
A cop for the night.
And all the doughnuts you can eat.
Meanwhile, however,
I need you to go to the dry cleaners.
Why don't you go and pick up
your dry cleaning yourself, sir?
Who said andhing about picking up?
You're dropping off.
Hello.
Cell phone, please.
Come on, Sergeev,
we have as the Americans say...
networking to go.
Commissioner Rawls.
- Sir.
- Gentlemen.
Deputy Commissioner Morelli.
Such a pleasure having you here.
May we give you gentlemen
the grand tour?
The secrets of Romanov?
You might say so.
- Thank you. We're honored.
- Please.
The guards, all FSB secret police.
Every door, every inch of glass
wired and alarmed.
So even if a bird flies in here,
you know about it.
Topkapi.
Rififi.
No. The bird flew into the museum,
landed on the wire,
and set off the alarm in Topkapi.
You're a cineaste.
Actually, I only see heist movies.
Well, the lesson to take away
from the bird flying into the museum
is no matter how well you planned,
always be ready to improvise
because I guarantee you,
something's gonna go wrong.
I'd prefer to avoid that.
How comprehensive
is the surveillance system?
Let's take a look.
Vault Level.
22 hours. Check.
Check.
- Smart card for the elevator.
- And all the doors.
This way. After you.
We're on.
Good to see you, old friend.
Let me introduce you.
Nice to meet you.
Lieutenant Weber, I presume.
You know, Ripley,
identity theft is a serious crime.
- And quite an embarrassing one in this case.
- Really?
Do you realize how ashamed I felt
telling that nice young lady at the door
that I was still a lieutenant?
I mean at my age?
Or should I say at your age?
I'm not amused.
What are you doing here?
And why did you appropriate
my invitation? As if I didn't know.
I apologize for the subterfuge.
I just wanted to show my friend here
some of the finer things in life.
Of course, if you want to arrest us
for impersonating police officers,
go right ahead.
I'm sure my lawyer
will have us out in 2 hours.
It would be a delightful 2 hours.
Get your hands down.
Then there's all that explaining
you'd have to do to your superiors.
Now, that would be an embarrassment.
Notorious thief gaining admittance
pretending to be you.
Great police work, Weber.
We should discuss my police work
when this is all over.
Who's your sidekick?
Jules Dassin.
Good to meet you, Jules.
I love your movies.
Enjoy the party, gents, while it lasts.
Now, do you mind telling me
what that was all about?
Just a cop.
Really? No kidding.
We have been made in the very place
we are supposed to take down.
Exactly how do you stay out ofjail?
Unless, of course, you and this Weber
are partners trying to set me up.
Are you, Ripley?
The elevator, gentlemen.
- Okay.
- Here we go.
Come on. Move your damn ass.
Weber has no idea what we're here for.
Of course he does.
He doesn't know when,
and he doesn't know how.
And no, he doesn't know about the eggs.
No one does. Here.
The best way to neutralize Weber
is to fuel his obsession with busting me.
He is so blinded by it, he no longer
thinks like a cop. Trust me.
Give me a good reason to, huh?
I already gave you 40 million
good reasons. Here.
Now that you've seen what the public sees,
it's time for the real treat.
That is, of course, as long as you promise
not to come back and rob us.
I guess I won't take any notes, then.
Our main vault.
Gregor, disarm the motion detectors.
As you will see, even with
the knowledge of all protocols,
it is absolutely impregnable.
The voice sensors ask
our head of security, Boris Sergeev,
a random set of pre-recorded words.
But this is only half the process.
We also have a biometric handprint sensor.
Since Mr. Sergeev and I are
the only ones who have clearance,
we must both be present to open the vaults.
Once I activate
the biometric handprint sensor,
he must activate the voice sensor.
This way, neither of us
can steal from the other.
Well, you better hope
Mr. Sergeev stays healthy.
Yeah.
I must stay healthy as well.
Hamburger.
Big Apple.
Jesus Christ.
The vault door automatically
resets on the hour,
at which point the sensors
must be activated in reverse.
All in all, gentlemen,
best not to get locked inside.
Well, did I say it was gonna be easy?
No, but you didn't say
it would be impossible, either.
Armored glass.
It would take a half an hour
to break through just one case.
But I'm afraid whoever tried
wouldn't even have half a second
because an ultrasonic motion detector
would automatically lock him in
and trigger the alarm.
Containment security, gentlemen.
Getting in is highly improbable,
but getting out is frankly impossible.
Where does that door lead?
To our inner vault, which contains
our most precious items.
I'm sorry, but security prevents me
from taking even this
distinguished group in there.
Now we'll proceed back to the reception,
but before we do,
I'd like to once again thank you both
for your generosity this last year
in helping set up our business.
And thank you very much
for the donation of that chopper.
You're very welcome.
Let's go. We can do this, Gabriel.
No. Absolutely not.
It was a pleasure. Goodbye.
Wait a minute. Wait.
Nobody's going anywhere yet.
If Zykov finds that camera,
he's gonna know what it is.
They'll change all the protocols.
Which part of "I don't give a shit"
do you not understand?
- Sorry. Let me just--
- I'll handle it.
- I've got it. I've got it.
- No, no, no.
Please, please. Allow me.
- I'm absolutely okay.
- I apologize, sir.
What the fuck?
Detective Weber, I'm Hal Donley,
special agent in charge of this op.
We understand you're conducting
an investigation of a potential theft
that you assume is going down
at Romanov Jewelers.
Assume, my ass.
I know it's going down,
and I know who's pulling it off.
Except we're asking you
to call off your dogs.
There are other matters
that take precedence.
What could possibly take precedence
over the potential theft
of millions of dollars in diamonds
from a company that donates tons
of money and equipment to the NYPD?
Valentin?
Vitaly Zykov, in the old Soviet days,
was the right-hand man
to a party boss named Dimitri Kuzin.
Kuzin set up a supposedly independent
Russian diamond center in America.
Romanov's.
But diamonds--
they're not all
that he's shipping over here.
He's ripping off
the Russian Treasury, Detective.
Gold, gems, artworks.
Gentlemen, where do you think
Romanov's got the money
to buy your department a helicopter
and now police cars?
From retail diamond sales?
So why are they doing this?
Is that a serious question?
So the NYPD will leave them alone.
That's their mindset.
We need more time
to build our mutual cases.
That's why we can't have
any other investigations
potentially alerting Zykov.
Lieutenant...
shut it down.
Gentlemen.
Commissioner.
Just in case you think
you're smarter than us,
decide to continue this investigation
on a down and low,
forget it.
This is bigger than you and your ego.
Do you get it?
I get it.
What did the feds have to say?
Nothing. Everything's still a go.
The first order of business
is to bypass the security cameras.
If we can gain access into
the surveillance system,
we can replace the light feed
with a continuous loop of study shots
with no face inside.
That still leaves the voice sensors,
the fingerprints, the motion detectors,
and the meanest-looking vault door
I have ever seen in my life.
The inner vault door--
Swiss-made, 3 feet thick,
with spring-driven relocking bolts.
If you punch out the lock,
they block retraction
so that you couldn't open it
even if you knew the combination.
Abraham Lincoln.
Broadway.
30 pre-recorded words.
One week, we've got them all.
Dan McWilliams, MTA.
Yes, we're going to be doing
some maintenance work
in the subway adjacent
to your basement next week.
We'll be working nights and didn't want
the drilling and what all to alarm you.
You place an ultrasonic transducer here,
broadcasting at the exact operating
frequency of the transmitter,
and it bounces back
the frequency to the unit,
at least in theory.
Have you ever used
an ultrasonic transducer?
Nope.
Can you get an ultrasonic transducer?
I can get anything, my friend.
Can you get past a keypad?
It is, as always, a question of time.
One tumbler at a time.
It is tight, but possible.
You.
Yeah.
Me.
What's so funny?
I hate Chinese food.
I absolutely, unequivocally,
irrevocably loathe Chinese food.
Oh.
Leonid, my boss,
is addicted to Chinese food.
- Oh.
- I can't even stand the smell.
Another completely wrong assumption.
No.
It's not completely...
wrong.
What?
Wow.
You stole this.
Yes, I did.
- Didn't you?
- Yes.
That's what I do.
Wait.
We have a problem.
The bracelet?
I cannot return it.
No. I like it.
So what could possibly be a problem?
You.
- What?
- Me.
I thought that part was not a problem.
And Ripley.
That part is a problem.
Yours and Ripley's
is a world I just can't trust.
How did your father die?
By gunshot.
Who did it?
He had gambling debts to a Russian
gangster named Nicky Petrovich.
Nicky wants his money.
Ask him.
This concept of, uh, vorovosky...
Vorovosky mir.
Yes, I'm familiar with it.
Where one is responsible
for the debts of another one.
Uh, why would they kill your father
and let Ripley live?
Because Ripley has-- I don't know.
How do you want me to put this?
Earning power.
Gaby,
I don't want to go to any more funerals.
I want to be with you,
but I can't promise you that,
and you can't promise me a thing,
so maybe we shouldn't even try.
Oh, you, you, you, you, you, you, you.
Get in.
I know you don't want to.
I know you don't mean to.
But you will hurt her.
She doesn't need any more of that.
None of which you had
anything to do with. Am I right?
Is there something you want to ask me?
Yes.
Why is Victor dead
and you're still walking around?
I'm sure Alex told you that Victor was
in deep to a man named Nicky Petrovich.
What she didn't know
was Nicky was ready to forgive the dept
if Victor pulled a job-- this job.
- Victor backed out?
- He was trying to protect Alex.
Made a deal with Weber.
He was gonna drop the dime on Nicky.
And you.
And me.
Weber offered Victor witness protection--
he and Alex, but Alex didn't want to go.
Victor didn't want to go without her, so...
he bought a bullet instead.
So then why is this still your problem?
Why don't you just leave?
You don't make a deal with Nicky Petrovich
and then walk away.
There's no statute of limitations.
Nicky wants those eggs.
Victor's share
would have paid off his debt.
Victor and I were partners.
He was responsible for me.
So now I'm responsible for him and his debt.
Bullshit.
Victor is dead. Just walk away.
- That's not an option.
- Oh, wow. This is just--
Look.
We do the job.
Nicky gets his cut.
I take a small chunk,
nowhere near commensurate
with my risk,
and you clear a cool 20 million.
I don't know. This is--
Look, either we pull this job off flawlessly,
or you call Weber
and you ask for witness protection,
which isn't a choice at all
because Nicky will find you,
and he will kill you.
It doesn't matter where you go
or how long it takes.
That's an unalterable fact.
Well, uh...
then we steal the fucking eggs.
No?
Yes.
Oh, shit.
All right, we are working on it, mami culos,
so back off, please. Thank you.
I think he called us a name.
We do not like to be insulted.
All right.
Do you know the significance
of this coin?
Yeah.
Then you must know, by the mere fact
that you have it in your possession,
I cannot assume the two of you
will not attempt to double-cross me.
Nobody's gonna try to double-cross you,
Nicky. We've been trying to--
Nicky.
- Alex, I'm so sorry.
Yeah, well, we're all sorry, aren't we?
There's no reason
for you to bring her here.
The fact that you gave that coin to him
tells me there are many reasons,
but only one I care about.
Why would we try to betray you?
Well, Ripley, in your case, perhaps,
a misguided sense of revenge.
His, perhaps, simply greed.
It doesn't matter.
I will not take the chance
of the two of you
taking what is rightfully mine
and selling it to the highest bidder.
Please, excuse me, Mr. Petrovich.
Will you, please? Thank you.
Where is it written
that these eggs are yours?
Because they belong to my family.
Because my great-grandfather
made them.
Yes, Ripley.
Evgenly Petrovich made them.
He made the 1917 mystery eggs.
I will have those eggs.
And you will get them for me.
That's why I bring Alexandra here.
To keep me company while you do
what you need to do.
Go.
Anyone try to follow us, she dies.
If there are police, she dies.
If I don't get what I want...she dies.
Go.
There is a subway, not far.
Damn you, Gabriel.
I told you not to get her involved.
You told me? You told me?
You and her father got her involved
even before she was born.
God damn it!
We go tomorrow.
I heard a noise.
What noise?
- You don't hear it?
- No.
Permission to investigate? Over.
Wait.
Gregor.
Negative for the noise.
Log book says
MTA's doing subway maintenance.
Maintenance?
Yes, in subway.
Keep us posted. Out.
Vault Level. Cut.
How much time?
Just over 3 minutes
until the 2200 hour check.
Vault Level.
22 hours. Check.
Zone 47. Basement stairwell door
That can't be the MTA.
I'm sending Gregor to check it out.
Vault Level, come in.
Vault Level.
Check out the alarm in the basement.
On my Way-
False alarm All clear.
Tell them everything's okay.
Smart card.
Come on, come on!
Let's go.
He's taking his time.
This is becoming quite boring.
What is that?
Porno?
Happy birthday, Artur.
Gregor, it's not my birthday.
It's not?
Someone has delivered
this birthday cake for Artur.
It's not my birthday.
My mistake. I thought it was the 23rd.
I left my walkie in the basement.
Permission to retrieve?
Make it fast, Gregor.
This is not amusing.
This is good cake.
You should have
a birthday more often.
Rasputin.
17.
Norway.
Fuck.
It wants to know if I'm hungry.
Are you?
Nyet.
All right.
Wait, wait, wait.
Go.
Stop.
Go right.
Right.
Stop.
Good.
Straight ahead.
Go, go, go, go, go.
Stop. Flatten out.
Head down, head down, head down.
Okay. Now diagonally left.
Diagonally to the left.
Keep going.
Left.
Get your arm in. No, arms!
- Flat. Down.
- Oh, shit.
Okay. Straight ahead.
Go, go, go, go, go.
Go, go.
Stop. Stop.
Deploy.
Hurry.
Stop. Stop. Flat.
Flat!
Okay, hurry.
Quick as you can.
Good.
It's working. Let's go.
Hold it, hold it, hold it!
- Lead.
- Okay.
Let's take a look.
When? Shit!
All right, sit tight.
We're on our way.
Yes, I owe you.
They're having a sale at Romanov.
- Sir?
- That was my plant.
Unexplained alarm went off
about an hour ago.
I want all available units
in the garage now.
Vouti and Michaels,
have them meet us at the staging area.
- Yes, sir.
- Now it's my turn.
We're good.
All right.
Easy, easy, easy, easy, easy.
- You're on.
- All right.
- Okay, a little more.
- Ready?
Come on, a little more.
A little more, little more.
Come on. More, more, more.
More, more, more.
Stop! Okay.
Right there.
- All right.
- Good job.
1 .
No.
2.
No. 3.
No. 4.
Hold-- That's it.
4, 1 .
No.
4, 2.
No. 4, 3.
No. 4, 4.
No.
4, 5.
Bingo.
Go, Sergeant! Let's go!
- Yes, sir.
- Sometime tonight.
How about it?
- All right.
4, 5, 6, 1, 2.
Got it. Got it.
4, 5, 6, 1, 2, 3.
No.
4, 5, 6, 1, 2, 4.
4, 5, 6, 1...
4, 5, 6, 1-- I know.
2, 5.
No.
Damn it.
4, 5, 6, 1, 2, 6.
Bingo. Okay. Okay.
4, 5, 6, 1...
2, 6, 1.
1.
Come on.
What the fuck are you doing?
lmprovising.
Shit.
- Take this shit off.
- Careful.
Let's go. Come on.
Move around this guy.
Move those guys out of the way.
Come on! Go through the lights!
There.
See if you can move these boxes.
All right.
Okay.
What are you doing?
Give me the box.
- Gabriel, don't do this.
- Give me the box.
What, you want more money?
Hell, man, look around you.
- Take what you want.
- Oh, shut up and give me the box.
What about Alex?
Nicky will kill her. You know that.
I will ask you one more time.
Why are you doing this?
I'm a cop.
In Miami for the last 10 years.
Weber requested me, just for you.
So you're a cop.
You want to arrest me? Go ahead.
Where am I gonna go?
But in one minute,
that vault door's gonna lock,
and we'll be stuck in here,
and Alex is gonna be dead.
I can't believe you're such
a contemptible human being
that you would use her like that
and then just kill her
because you might as well
be pulling the trigger yourself.
Simply to bag the great Keith Ripley.
You sorry, sick motherfucker.
You got 30 seconds.
How do I find Nicky?
- Phone number in my pocket.
- Give it to me.
And the eggs.
Do you want her alive or not?
Do you?
10 seconds.
I'm sorry.
Come on.
Underground, boys.
All right, let's move! Come on!
Security Desk to Vault Level. Over.
Bodgan, check out the elevator.
Immediately.
I'm a police officer!
Listen to me.
There is a thief
locked in your inner vault.
The guard is in the basement closet.
Move! Move, move, move!
Move out of there!
Now! Move!
Come on!
Tell them to put their weapons down now.
Now!
- Aah!
- Okay.
Fine.
Put them down.
Now!
Kick them, now!
What do you want?
You let me out the front door
so I can rejoin my unit.
They have the building surrounded.
Meantime, you go downstairs,
you find your thief and your comrade.
- You understand?
- That door is alarmed.
- I can't just open it.
- You have a problem, solve it.
Do not make me shoot this man, please.
Aah!
Put down your weapons.
- We are police!
- Yeah?
Everybody's police tonight.
- Hello?
- Hey, I have what you want.
No, it's just me.
We have these 'police'
in the conference room.
Keep them there for now.
Can we talk?
I have a proposition for you.
Where is she?
Do not move.
He has a gun behind the box.
Bad boy.
Give me the box and give Andrei
your weapon, please.
- We don't wish trouble here.
- No, no, no, no.
You don't understand.
You let her go, then I'll give you the box.
You see, if I fire through this box,
which I have no problem doing
whatsoever,
Nicky's not gonna be very happy.
Then we are all expendable.
If you actually understand
the meaning of the word.
Open the box.
Lower the gun. Lower the gun.
Lower it.
Okay.
You all right?
Yeah. I'm just lovely, thanks.
You go.
Give me the box.
- Get in.
- Why?
Nicky wants to see you.
Give me your weapon.
We're fine, right?
Where do you get off detaining us?
My apologies, Lieutenant Weber.
My security were,
understandably, confused.
Please go with Mr. Sergeev
down to the vault.
We have what you want. Please.
Where's the other one?
Nobody else.
Just him.
Where the hell's my man?
Lieutenant, your personal life--
none of my business.
I apologize for bringing you here,
but I had to be sure the eggs were genuine
before I let you go.
Your lack of trust is really depressing,
Mr. Petrovich.
I'm a man of my word.
She should be with her godfather now.
Let's see.
- Do you mind?
- Sure, call.
Yeah.
- Hello?
- Hey. Where are you?
I'm at the jail.
- I had to see him.
- How is he?
Well, how do you think he is?
I had no choice, Alex.
No one had a choice.
Remember?
I told you.
Neither one of us could promise a thing.
Listen, promises blow away
in the wind,
but feelings are real.
And I need to know
were the feelings lies, too?
Listen, listen.
What I mean is...
are we real?
Um...
I've got to go, Gabriel.
Good night.
Hey, don't--
Hold--
Are you satisfied?
Did you see them?
Actually, we were in a hurry.
Look.
They are simply...
wood?
Oh, my God.
Simply wood?
It was 1917, Gabriel.
Russia.
People were starving.
There were no jewels, no diamonds left.
No hope.
Yet Czarina Alexandra
had to have her eggs.
Perhaps you understand
why we had that revolution.
People needed to believe in something.
Take him home.
Gabriel.
I know what they say about me,
but I'm not a killer.
Merely a humble immigrant.
Probably much like you.
I don't think so, Mr. Petrovich.
You're not like me at all.
Excellent.
Thanks.
We got Petrovich. Snitch called it in.
After all this time looking for him,
you know where he was?
I'm sure you'll tell us.
He was sitting on the boardwalk,
watching the sun come up.
He's coming in now.
I'll be right back.
Yeah.
What I didn't count on was that
a so-called professional
would be manipulated by a chick.
What kind of cops they make
down there in Miami?
Good ones, Weber. Good ones.
I don't get it.
All these years in that world.
How do you let an asset use you?
Sometimes things, uh, change.
"Things change"?
Like a "which side am I on" change?
Ripley, what is he, your best friend now?
Well, actually, a better friend than you.
Ah, I get it.
I'm the asshole.
You're gonna tell me what a good guy he is
or how he got caught up
in a situation he couldn't control
or how the sins of the father
shouldn't rest on the daughter?
Give me something better
than "things change."
All I can give you is the truth.
Eh, fuck it.
Go back to Miami, Martin.
When your superiors get my report,
you'll be lucky if you have a job.
We'll see.
Hey, say anything you want about Ripley,
but nothing changes the fact
that I finally got him.
Now when he leaves prison,
he'll be leaving in a pine box.
Let's go see Mr. Petrovich.
No.
That's not Nicky Petrovich.
What?
Not him.
Look, man, Organized Crime confirmed it.
- That's Nicky Petrovich.
- Well, I don't care.
That's not him.
I was there, remember?
There's no case here.
What are you talking about?
Of course there's a case.
Do you really think I'm going
to put him on the stand?
An undercover Miami cop
who may or may not be legit?
- No offense.
- None taken.
A cop who's the centerpiece
of a botched undercover operation
that was officially ordered stopped?
I'm not going to embarrass the Bureau,
much less your department,
which accepted tons of money
and equipment from the Russian Mafia.
What about Romanov's?
What about the goddamn
stolen treasures of Russia?
What about it, Weber?
When Zykov found Ripley in the vault,
he had everything cleared out
before you could get in.
I have a proposition for you.
There's no way Romanov's
will press charges against Ripley.
Because they can never admit that the eggs
or anything else ever existed.
So we can't even prove
that Detective Martin and Ripley
stole even a goddamn dime.
But you must have mug shots.
Russian Mafia,
known associates, something.
That's him.
That's Nicky Petrovich.
- Detective Martin?
- Yeah?
That's Victor Korolenko.
Presumed dead.
We just never found the body.
We never will...Lieutenant.
Weber.
What?
His lawyer got him in front of a judge
on an expedited bail hearing.
Then he just walked.
Who was it?
- Who was what?
- The lawyer.
Who the fuck do you think?
Alex.
Korolenko.
You can't promise me a thing,
so maybe we shouldn't even try.
Papa.
Shall we go?
Yeah?
Didn't want to leave
without saying good-bye.
I owe you one, Gaby.
The real Nicky Petrovich
is the one Zykov is funneling
the contraband through.
Thank you, but Zykov and Petrovich
have gone underground.
Check out a disco called--
Riga Rose?
Ah, I see you're familiar
with the territory.
Well...I am a cop, remember?
Never forgot it for a second.
When did you know?
I knew you were coming up from Miami
before you did, Gaby.
See, Weber and I--
Well, let's just say
we share the same sources,
only I pay better.
Sir, we're good to go.
So why the help, Ripley?
Maybe feeling guilty?
"Guilt" is not even in my vocabulary.
I was just hoping
you'd see things differently.
Together, you and I could do andhing.
Yeah.
I believe we did.
I'll get in touch later on,
if you're interested.
Meanwhile, I've got to keep
an appointment with a man
who's gonna pay very dearly
for something
he's got to keep locked in his basement
just to say it's his.
- Good hunting, Gaby.
- Wait, wait, wait!
Let me talk to her, just for a second.
That's him?
What makes you think
she's going anywhere?
She didn't commit any crime.
She just lied to someone
who was lying to her.
You be good.
I'll try, Uncle Keith.
Although I suspect
my legal career just ended.
Thank God.
You come in here every night,
and every night I tell you
I don't know shit from this Petrovich.
This is a nightclub, my friend.
You know what I think?
I think you need to check out the action
and get your ass laid.
Yeah.
- You know what I'm saying to you?
- Yeah.
Find yourself a chick.
Vodka.
Zakuska?
Russian hors d'oeuvres
to coat the stomach.
Oh.
Will my stomach need coating?
I hope so.
I thought you didn't drink.
You thought a lot of things,
but I believe I mentioned something
about making assumptions.
Maybe that's a concept
we should get rid of.
lmmediately.
My name is Gabriel Martin.
I am from Miami.
I was actually looking for a lawyer,
but the office was closed.
So...I came here.
Okay.
My name is Alexandra Korolenko,
and I come from St. Petersburg
by way of Little Odessa.
And...
I love to dance.
So...
I came here tonight.
Do you want to dance with me?
Yeah.
I'm willing to make a fool of myself.
Me, too.
- Alex?
- Yeah?
That night, when I called you
from Coney lsland,
you never answered my question.
Which one?
I wanted to-- I want to know...
Was it all lies?
Not the part that matters.
♫  Starting right here,
let's make a promise
♫   You and me
♫   Let's just be honest
♫   We're gonna run
♫   Nothing can stop us
That was true.
That was real. I felt that.
That was real.
That was real. Finally.
♫   We'll run away
on roads that are empty
♫   Lights from the airfield
shining upon you
♫   Nothing can stop us
♫   Not now, I love you
♫   They're not gonna get us
♫   Nothing can stop us
♫   Not now, I love you
♫   They're not gonna get us
♫   We'll run away,
keep everything simple
♫   Night will come down,
our guardian angel
♫   We rush ahead,
the crossroads are empty
♫   Our spirits rise
♫   They're not gonna get us
♫   My love for you, always forever
♫   Just you and me
♫   All else is nothing
♫   Not going back,
not going back there
♫   They don't understand
♫   They don't understand us
♫   Don't understand us
♫   Not gonna get us
♫   They're not gonna get us
♫   Nothing can stop us
♫   Not now, I love you
♫   They're not gonna get us
♫   Nothing can stop us
♫   Not now, I love you
♫   They're not gonna get us
♫   Not gonna get us